h3. 10.1.0
2016-08-08: Update document_partial_name for modern ActiveFedora fields [Justin
Coyne]

2016-08-08: Remove workarounds for older versions of ActiveTriples [Justin
Coyne]

2016-07-28: Loosen dependency on rails, to support Rails 5 [Justin Coyne]

2016-08-08: Use the non-deprecated devise test helper module [Justin Coyne]

2016-08-08: Use the RDF::Vocab gem for predicates [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.9.0

2016-03-24: Adding hydra:test_server Rake task for running Solr/Fedora
persistently instead of in CI mode [Esmé Cowles]

2016-03-24: Mute deprecations in specs [Justin Coyne]

2016-03-24: Destroy permissions when an object is destroyed [Justin Coyne]

2016-03-18: Update to use ActiveFedora 9.10.0 [Justin Coyne]

2016-03-23: Generate AccessControlsEnforcement into SearchBuilder [Justin Coyne]

2016-03-22: Don't explicitly add access controls [Justin Coyne]

2016-03-18: Use the solrconfig that uses autoCommit [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.8.1 (2016-02-24)
* 2016-02-16: Display the rails log from the hydra:server rake task [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-02-16: Refactor generator to only have one dev/test group in Gemfile
[Justin Coyne]

*  2016-02-15: Remove colons from labels. [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-02-12: Call id_to_resource_uri with a graph [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.8.0 (2016-02-15)
* 2016-02-15: Add hydra:server rake task for starting all services together
[Justin Coyne]

* 2016-02-12: Use with_test_server from ActiveFedora [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-02-12: Test Rails 4.2.5.1 [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-02-12: Use the template to set the model name [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.7.1 (2016-02-08)
* 2016-02-06: Use test variable for test solr port if available [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.7.0 (2016-02-05)
* 2016-02-05: Replace Jettywrapper with fcrepo_wrapper [Justin Coyne]
* 2016-01-26: Allow Hydra::PermissionsSolrDocument to autoload [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.6.0 (2016-01-21)
* 2015-11-05: Use ruby 1.9 style hashes [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-01-21: Test with Blacklight 5 and 6 [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-01-15: Test Blacklight 6 [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-01-07: Document Embargoable#deactivate_embargo! [ci skip] [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-01-07: Document Embargo#deactivate! [ci skip] [Justin Coyne]

* 2016-01-06: Remove hard dependency on sass-rails. [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-11-19: Extracted some of hydra-access-controls code to a new gem,
blacklight-access_controls. [val99erie]

* 2015-11-23: Remove deprecated user permission type [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.5.0 (2015-11-11)
* 2015-11-09: Upgrade to Blacklight 5.16 and remove deprecation warnings [Justin
Coyne]

* 2015-11-09: Updated to make it work with blacklight 5.16 [val99erie]

h3. 9.3.0 (2015-10-07)
* 2015-10-03: Provide CanCan abilities for :discover permissions. [Randy Coulman]

* 2015-09-30: Don't mark the visibility as changed unless it actually changed
[Justin Coyne]

* 2015-08-18: Role mapper should fetch keys [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-08-11: Extract lease and embargo indexers for easier overriding [Justin
Coyne]

* 2015-08-05: Adding in the Content-Length header [Carolyn Cole]

h3. 9.2.2 (2015-08-03)
* 2015-07-30: Moved condition logic to its own method to give app developer a chance to configure it to not perform future date validation [val99erie]

* 2015-07-21: Changes content header for JSON-LD mimetype. [Andrew Myers]

h3. 9.2.1 (2015-07-28)
* 2015-07-17: Append MIME types in the install generator. Fixes #132 [Michael J.
Giarlo]

* 2015-07-15: Setting visibility= doesn't create an embargo/lease if one doesn't
exist. Fixes #272 [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-07-14: Set travis to use JDK 8 [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-07-14: Embargoable#valid? shouldn't create a Lease or Embargo This should
be a significant speedup for projects that use Embargoable Ref
https://github.com/projecthydra-labs/sufia-core/issues/31 [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-07-09: Fix permissions when setting visibility to public from
authenticated. [Olli Lyytinen]

h3. 9.2.0 (2015-07-08)
* Don't index permissions marked for destruction [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.2.0.rc1 (2015-06-30)
* Support ActiveFedora 9.2.0 [Justin Coyne]

* Fixed typo in warning messages. Fixes #263 [Hector Correa]

* uses explicit syntax about the scope of url routes used when redirecting a user based on access denial [Matt Zumwalt]

* Add Content Negotiation [Trey Terrell]

h3. 9.1.4 (2015-4-17)
* Admin Policies should remember their permissions. Fixes #257 [Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.1.3 (2015-4-16)
* Loosen version lock on active-fedora

h3. 9.1.2 (2015-3-12)
* Added Hydra::Catalog module to parallel Blacklight::Catalog
* Extract Hydra::Controller::SearchBuilder from Hydra::Controller::ControllerBehavior

h3. 9.1.1 (2015-3-10)
* Fixed policy based access controls for Fedora 4

h3. 9.1.0 (2015-3-6)
* Support blacklight 5.10.0

* Don't autoload ModsAsset.

* Deprecate ModsAsset.

h3. 9.0.1 (2015-1-30)
* 2015-01-30: Update gemspecs to point at ActiveFedora 9.0.0 Also added versions
to gems that didn't have any. Fixes #192 Removed unused block_helpers depenency
[Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-29: Fix broken specs. parameters passed to add_file were wrong [Justin
Coyne]

* 2015-01-29: Revert refactor of set_title_and_label from 5ba3481 It was not
respecting only_if_blank if label was already set [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-28: Deprecate Hydra::ModelMethods extract apply_depositor_metadata to
Hydra::WithDepositor [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-28: Refactor add_file so that it works with ActiveFedora ActiveFedora
already has an add_file method that would clash without these changes [Justin
Coyne]

* 2015-01-28: Downloads should be streaming [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-27: Deprecated Properties datastream set a custom "depositor" RDF
property on the model instead [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-27: Remove datastream from download Datastreams don't exist in Fedora 4,
we use files instead [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-23: Remove apply_superuser_permissions. This method wasn't doing
anything [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-16: Preparing for 9.0.0.rc3 release [Michael J. Giarlo]

* 2015-01-16: Bump version to 9.0.0.rc3 [Michael J. Giarlo]

* 2015-01-15: Point at updated jettywrapper and remove config_fedora task that is
FCR3-specific [Michael J. Giarlo]

* 2015-01-16: Refactor how access denied errors are handled This enables
applications to override the behavior. [Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-12: Fix indenting on the lines the generator injects into the User class
[Justin Coyne]

* 2015-01-07: Preparing for 9.0.0.rc2 release [Michael J. Giarlo]

* 2015-01-07: Pointing at AF 9.0.0.rc1 and bumping version to 9.0.0.rc1 [Michael
J. Giarlo]

* 2014-12-19: Test with the final release of rails 4.2 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-19: Preparing for 9.0.0.beta2 release [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-19: Set title should set the title property if it's defined. Fixes #227
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-17: Use the container based travis builds [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-15: Compatibility with AF 9.0.0.beta7 -- explicitly declares
single-value metadata fields [Matt Zumwalt]

* 2014-12-04: Test with hydra-jetty v8.1.0 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-03: Preparing for 9.0.0.beta1 release [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-03: Update rspec syntax [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-03: Remove deprecated initialization of AF::File [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-03: Use active-fedora 9.0.0.beta1 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-03: Cleanup rebase [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-01: Remove calls to deprecated methods [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-01: The APO lookup should use the correct solr_key [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-01: Support for Rails 4.2.rc1 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-12-01: Use the predicate option instead of the deprecated option "property"
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-15: Using ::RDF [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-15: Updating AF 9 beta1 and hydra-jetty [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-13: Use key? instead of keys.include? [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-13: Reduce the number of writes to improve test performance [Justin
Coyne]

* 2014-11-13: Use the correct solr doc [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-13: Fixed typo [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-11: Use fcrepo4 beta 4 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-11: Datastream no longer has a digital_object to reference. Use the URI
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-06: Extracting constant for magic strings [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-05: Expose accessors for the properties on Permission [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-11-03: Replace deprecated method pid with id [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-31: ActiveFedora can specify the ldp dependency [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-31: Allow the version of active-triples to be provided by active-fedora
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-31: Removed call to deprecated datastreams method. Use attached_files
instead [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-30: Remove unused test file [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-30: Replace deprecated has_metadata with contains [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-30: Changed Datastream to File [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-30: Test on rails 4.2.beta4 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-15: Move embargo and lease logic from Embargoable and into Embargo and
Lease classes [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-15: Fix hydra-core specs to work without rightsMetadata [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-15: Remove the rightsMetadata datastreams [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-15: Switch from use Hydra rightsMetadata XML to web access controls
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-10: Unset pending on a test that is resolved with a Fedora upgrade
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-10: Use a proper URI in the datastream test [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-09: Make the base uri before trying to use it [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-09: Lock to 0.0.8 version of ldp [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-10-09: Upgrade hydra-jetty to fedora-4/master [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-08-12: Decouple depositor from the properties datastream This enables a
Fedora 4 app to just store the depositor as an assertion on the object [Justin
Coyne]

* 2014-07-25: ModelMethods#add_file should set the original_name. Fixes #198
[Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-25: Allow user to supply mime-type to add_file. Ref. #198 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-23: Require mime-types gem [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-23: Add backtraces on travis [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-23: Convert download_controller to use ActiveFedora 8 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Remove fixtures [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Working on upgrading the DownloadController to AF 8 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Added sass-rails to gemfiles [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Adjust gemfiles for Rails 4.0 and 4.1 testing [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Use the fedora-4 version of hydra-jetty [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Bump rails version to 4.0.8 [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-07-22: Remove deprecated methods [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-04-24: Changes calls to Hydra::AdminPolicy#create to Hydra::AdminPolicy.new
which works around an issue where records were not getting deleted due to an
issue with LDP, combined with an issue where active fedora was updating records
that were found when #create was called. Whew. [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-04-24: Changes call to ActiveFedora::Datastream#id to
ActiveFedora::Datastream#digital_object#id. [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-04-24: Fixes bugs introduced by active_fedora 8. Deprecations, and changes
in method signatures. [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-04-24: setting the version [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-04-24: Fixes undefined constant Deprecation in tests. [Justin Coyne]

* 2014-04-24: First blush on getting an active fedora 8/ fedora 4 hydra-head
[Justin Coyne]

h3. 9.0.0 (2015-1-30)
* yanked due to syntax error in gemspec

h3. 7.2.1 (2014-9-2)
* 2014-09-02: Fix problem Cannot define multiple 'included' blocks. #201 & #202

h3. 7.2.0 (2014-07-18)
* 2014-07-14: Unifying download response header behavior [Jeremy Friesen]
* 2014-07-17: Ability should use the rails logger rather than Loggable [Justin Coyne]
* 2014-07-18: Adjust the tested versions of Ruby to the latest patch available on Travis [Justin Coyne]
* 2014-07-17: loosen active-fedora spec to ~> 7.0 in preparation for 7.1.0 [Justin Coyne]
* 2014-06-24: Only deactivate lease/embargo when there is a lease/embargo deactivate_lease! and deactivate_embargo! shouldn't do anything unless there is a lease_expiration_date or an embargo_release_date [Justin Coyne]
* 2014-06-24: Upgrade to rspec 3 [Justin Coyne]

h3. 6.4.0 (2013-09-30)
* Patch Hydra::AccessControlsEnforcement#escape_filter to support
  group/role names containing colons. [David Chandek-Stark]
* Fixed Solr field name [David Chandek-Stark]
* Amended Hydra::User#groups to pass self to RoleMapper.roles in order to avoid
  redundant user lookup. Fixes #111. [David Chandek-Stark]
* Moved controller mixins into concerns [Justin Coyne]
* Added #permissions= as deprecated to maintain backward compatibility
  of Hydra::AdminPolicy with hydra-head < 6.4. (In hydra-head < 6.4
  Hydra::AdminPolicy included Hydra::ModelMixins::RightsMetadata, which provided
  #permissions=.) [David Chandek-Stark]
* Removed deprecated modules from ModsAsset [Justin Coyne]
* Removed RedCloth dependency [Justin Coyne]
* Some of the delegated methods weren't pointing at their intended
  target [Justin Coyne]
* Pin to active-fedora >= 6.6.0.rc1 and refactor usage of delegate to
  avoid deprecation warnings [Justin Coyne]
* Update rail [Justin Coyne]
* Hydra::PolicyAwareAbility#policy_pid_for modified to handle
  multiple objects having different policies (Fixes #101). Implemented pending
  tests for Hydra::PolicyAwareAbility#test_read_from_policy and
  #test_read_from_policy. [David Chandek-Stark]
* Deprecate Hydra::ModelMixins::SolrDocumentExtension [Justin Coyne]
* Deprecate Hydra::ModelMixins::CommonMetadata [Justin Coyne]
* Remove duplicate code [Justin Coyne]
* Remove lib/hydra.rb so that the hydra gem can load normally [Justin Coyne]
* Substituted double for the now deprecated mock() and stub() [Justin Coyne]
* Adds #asset_param_key method to DownloadBehavior to support overriding
  the default params key (:id) for the asset PID. [David Chandek-Stark]
* Added the derived property visibility, from sufia [Justin Coyne]
* Added nested attributes for permissions [Justin Coyne]
* PolicyAwareAbility should include Ability so you don't have to [Justin Coyne]
* All policies should be applied to gated discovery when more than 10
  are applicable [Chris Colvar]
* Deprecated Hydra::ModelMixins::RightsMetadata [Justin Coyne]

h3. 6.3.4 (2013-08-27)
* Default ability shouldn't have policy methods [Justin Coyne]
* Escape spaces in group names in solr query conditions [Chris Colvard]
* Deprecating and removing calls to .is_puublic? [Adam Wead]
* Issue 78: Adding blank custom_permissions method with comments [Adam Wead]
* Updating README [Adam Wead]
* Add an ability.rb file when running the generator [Adam Wead]

h3. 6.3.3 (2013-08-16)
* Fix serialization of empty permissions lists [Michael Klein]

h3. 6.3.2 (2013-07-22)
* render_selected_facet_value should make use of Blacklight's facet_display_value method [Justin Coyne]
* added contribution guidelines [Jeremey Friesen]

h3. 6.3.1 (2013-07-04)
* Run 'bundle install' after adding gems to the gemfile [Justin Coyne]
* Update README.textile [Matt Zumwalt]
* Add version badge to the Readme [Justin Coyne]
* Removed test that did not actually test any hydra code [Justin Coyne]

h3. 6.3.0 (2013-07-01)
* Use Om in a way that is compatible with 3.0.1 [Justin Coyne]
* Rails 4 support [Justin Coyne]

h3. 6.2.2 (2013-06-14)
* Rights metadata should only update the user you tell it to update. [Justin Coyne]

h3. 6.2.1 (2013-06-14)
* Removed commented out line that was changed in commit bd53011b3f1fd2f20703b703db67385e100e67d6. [David Chandek-Stark]
* Adding CONTRIBUTORS.md [Jeremy Friesen]
* Patched Hydra::PolicyAwareAccessControlsEnforcement to properly handle anonymous users by amending #policies_with_access (previously returned empty list when current_user is nil) and #apply_policy_individual_permissions. [David Chandek-Stark]
* Change the version of hydra-head in the readme [Justin Coyne]
* Updating hydra generator for rspec [Jeremy Friesen]
* Removing trailing whitespace from generators [Jeremy Friesen]
* Update CONTRIBUTING.md [Justin Coyne]

h3. 6.2.0 (2013-05-23)
* Fix mismatched arguments in DownloadBehavior
* Allow discovery_permissions to be set in AccessControlsEnforcement
* Fix solr name for the embargo release date

h3. 6.1.1 (2013-05-09)
* Correct typo in CatalogController template
* Fix bug where default_content_ds, was not being checked in DownloadController
* BlacklightHelperBehavior#document_partial_name should work on single values fields
* BlacklightHelperBehavior#document_partial_name should replace periods in partial name
* Use AF::Base.load_instance_from_solr in the DownloadController
* DownloadController raises an error if no datastream can be loaded
* Solrizer 3.1.0 compatible tests

h3. 6.1.0 (2013-04-29)
* Fixed Solr 4 compatibility issue in construction of policy clauses in Hydra::PolicyAwareAccessControlsEnforcement.
* Removed references to dictionaries that are not in the default solrconfig.
* Config templates are now in active-fedora.
* hydra-access-controls requires blacklight.
* Upgrade guide removed -- see wiki for upgrade notes.
* Added .yardopts so that rdoc.info generates correct API documentation.
* active-fedora upgraded to 6.1.

h3. 6.0.0 (2013-03-28)
* Added a jetty generator
  If you want to install a version of jetty on your local machine to develop you project,
  you can now do: 'rails generate hydra:jetty'

* Using new solr schema
  The new solr schema is written to be a more efficient (smaller document size) and easier to configure
  in your OmDatastream or RDFDatastreams.

  You need to put in place the new schema.xml and solrconfig.xml.  Then restart solr and reindex using:
  'ActiveFedora::Base.reindex_everything'

  You're going to want to search your project to make sure you don't have any fields coded like: *_t or *_s
  These field names have changed to *_tesim and *_ssim respectively.

  Finally change your config/initializer/hydra_config.rb to look something like this:
  https://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-head/blob/master/hydra-core/lib/generators/hydra/templates/config/initializers/hydra_config.rb

  For more information about the new index see the Solrizer 3.0.0 docs:
  https://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-head/wiki/Solr-Schema
  https://github.com/projecthydra/solrizer/blob/master/README.textile

* Added a Hydra::Controllers::DownloadBehavior which allows you to easily create
  a controller to serve the content of datastreams.

  class DownloadsController < ApplicationController
    include Hydra::Controller::DownloadBehavior
  end

  then in config/routes.rb add ```resources :downloads```

  then you can do a GET /downloads/{pid}?datastream_id=thumbnail  to get the thumbnail datastream

  By default this allows any user with read access to the object identified by pid to download any
  of the datatreams.  If you want to control which datastreams a user has access to, overwrite the
  can_download? method.

  This example allows anyone to download a 'thumbnail' datastream:

  def can_download?
    datastream.dsid == 'thumbnail'
  end

h3. 5.4.0
* Hydra::Ability should use a separate cache for each permission document
* Fixed bug with policy access enforcement which occurs when you select a facet.
* Fixed logging typo
* Hydra::User now has a groups method. Use this instead of RoleMapper.

h3. 5.3.0
* add Hydra::ModelMethods.add_file
* Don't generate solr_mappings.yml by default

h3. 5.2.0
* Custom abilities (cancan) via ability_logic_chain
* Refactor upload behavior so that add_posted_blob_to_asset() isn't tightly coupled to Rack::Multipart::UploadedFile

h3. 5.1.0
* Bump to AF ~> 5.3

h3. 5.0.0
* We no longer require the hydra-file-access stuff by default, add "gem 'hydra-file-access'" if you want to continue to use it.
* Upgrade to active-fedora 5.0 (you must add :index_as=>[:searchable] to models you want to index in solr)

h3. 4.1.1
* Fixed solr gated access query so that it doesn't keep appending 'registered' group
* Moved user into hydra-access-controls, bump hydra-access-controls to 0.0.5

h3. 4.1.0
* Add AccessControlsEnforcement to AssetsController
* Upgrade to active fedora ~>4.1
* Upgrade to solrizer-fedora 2.1.0
* Upgrade to blacklight ~> 3.4
* Improved access controls api
* HYDRA-817 allow overriding of where we redirect_to, so that nested routes will work
* Extracted hydra-mods and hydra-access-controls
* Deprecation fest in preparation for 5.0
* HYDRA-822 Move GlobalConfig into Hydra. It was removed from Blacklight.
* HYDRA-831 apply_depositor_metadata should not overwrite existing user permissions
* HYDRA-832 depositor should apply depositor metadata if the properties datastream exists
* Fix up layout to better match blacklight.

Note about deprecations:  We encourage the implementer to create their own controllers
for CRUD operations and use standard Rails forms rather than using the AssetsController
and the AssetsControllerHelpers. In the 5.0 series these capabilites will be removed from
HydraHead.  If you want to continue using these modules, you should copy the appropriate
files from this release into your local Hydra application. Further simplified examples
of this approach will be forthcoming. Until then, scholarsphere is a great exemplar.

h3. 4.0.0
* Upgrade to active fedora 4.0.0
* Upgrade to blacklight 3.3.0
* Removed railtie to configure active-fedora
* Register solr happens automatically
* HYDRA-610 Using CanCan gem for authorization
* Compatibility with Rails 3.2
* Compatibility with Ruby 1.9.3

h3. 3.3.0
* HYDRA-737: fixes to work with Ruby Enterprise Edition 2011.12 and ruby-1.8.7-p357.
* Update ActiveFedora to 3.3.0
* Separating Hydra::Controller from Hydra::UI::Controller

h3. 3.2.3
* HYDRA-736: hydra-head should not define a rake task called 'spec'

h3. 3.2.2
* Update to ActiveFedora 3.2.2 to fix severe error
* HYDRA-661: deprecated tasks and made them call AF repo tasks

h3. 3.2.1
* SubmissionWorkflow was not being required
* Removed JettyCleaner (broken and unused)

h3. 3.2.0
* Update to Blacklight 3.1.2
* Update to ActiveFedora 3.2.0
* Update to solrizer-fedora 1.2.2
* Remove calls to has_relationship
* File assets no longer check collection_member relationship (for container)

h3. 3.1.5
* Update to ActiveFedora 3.1.4
* Update to solrizer-fedora 1.2.0
* Fix problems where Datastreamr#attributes["mimeType"] was being called (changed to Datastream#mimeType)

h3. 3.1.4
* Removed unnecessary require of jettywrapper

h3. 3.1.3
* Make FileAssetController easily overridden
* Update hydra-jetty, to support test and development fedora

h3. 3.1.2
* Make AssetController easily overridden

h3. 3.1.1
* Selected facet was not html_safe
* document_list was attempting to call Mash#get, when sorting by object_type_facet
* Don't issue two notice messages when saving document.

h3. 3.1.0
* Updated to ActiveFedora 3.1.1
* Update rake tasks to leverage jettywrapper
* Don't fork processes to run tests
* Refactor helpers, so that applications can easily override them
* Remove Djatoka support
* Fixed login error messages
* Fixed documentation rake task

h3. 3.0.1

* generator has the correct solr config files
* reverted back to using object_type_facet for "Format" facet.  This is instead of using active_fedora_model_s, which made some cucumber tests unstable because active_fedora_model_s is populated inconsistently by ActiveFedora (really we should deprecate that solr field)

h2. 3.0.0: Upgrade to Rails 3

h3. 0.0.1

Pulled plugin code from Hydrus
* Javascript disabled, progressive enhancement set up
* Better Cucumber Coverage

h3. 0.0.0
