h2. Installing the Test Host Applicaton

h3. Prerequisites

* ruby v 1.8.7 or higher
* rubygems
* these ruby gems:
** bundler
** rails version < 3.
* git
* java 1.6 or higher

h4. (0) We strongly suggest using RVM  (Ruby Version Manager) as a means of keeping your different ruby applications with their specific gem requirements from having version clashes. 

See https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/

If you don't have the desired ruby version in RVM, e.g. ree-1.8.7, then install it.

<pre>
  rvm install ree-1.8.7
</pre>

h4. (1) Get the hydra-head engines plugin from github.

While in your empty hydra-head-test directory:

<pre>
git clone git@github.com:projecthydra/hydra-head.git
cd hydra-head
</pre>

<b>This hydra-head directory is the <i>root of the plugin</i>.</b>

h4. (1a) Ensure you are using the RVM gemset

<pre>
  . .rvmrc
</pre>

You should get a message like this:
 Using /usr/local/you/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02 with gemset hyhead-rails2-testing


h4. (2) Use bundler to install the gem dependencies.

<pre>
  bundle install
</pre>

You may need to install bundler into the gemset first:

<pre>
  gem install bundler
</pre>

h4. (3) Pull a copy of jetty pre-configured for Hydra with Fedora and Solr installed.
Also pull the rails application set up just for testing the Hydra-Head engines plugin.

For the current Rails 2 incarnation, you have to install hydra-head as a plugin in a full rails application.  This will pull the a preconfigured testing application created for this purpose, as well as jetty preconfigured with Fedora and Solr.

<pre>
  git submodule init
  git submodule update
</pre>

This will put hydra-jetty into the jetty directory and the test host application into hydra-plugin_test_host

h4. (4) IMPORTANT: Put a copy of the plugin into the host app

*If you don't run this, you will not be able to run the test host app or its rake tasks*

The host application needs a copy of the plugin in its vendor/plugins directory.  We provide a rake task for this.  The rake task will copy all of the plugin code into hydra-plugin_test_host/vendor/plugins

<pre>
rake hyhead:copy_to_host_plugins_dir
</pre>

h4. (5) Migrate the test databases

See below to reset the test databases when re-running tests.

You must do this within the <b><i>hydra-plugin_test_host</i> directory</b>, not at the root of the plugin.

<pre>
  cd hydra-plugin_test_host
</pre>  

NOTE: to ensure that the tests do not rely on non-test data, do this:

<pre>
  rake db:drop:all 
</pre>

Migrate the test databases:

<pre>
  rake db:migrate:all RAILS_ENV=test  
</pre>

In case you ever run the server in development mode, you will need to migrate the databases without RAILS_ENV set to test

<pre>
  rake db:migrate:all
</pre>

Now cd back up to the root of the <b><i>hydra-head plugin</i> directory</b>:

<pre>
  cd ../
</pre>

h3. Now you're ready to run the tests

If you want to run the tests, see "README_TESTING_PLUGIN"https://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-head/blob/master/README_TESTING_PLUGIN.textile

h2. Running the App

The test host app is a regular Rails app with Blacklight installed.  Its configured with the assumption that the hydra-head plugin is installed into vendor/plugins/hydra-head.

Before starting the app, make sure that you have the latest copy of the plugin code copied into its plugins directory.

<pre>
rake hyhead:remove_from_host_plugin
rake hyhead:copy_to_host_plugins_dir
</pre>

After copying the plugin code, cd into the root of the test app and start it like you normally start any rails app.

<pre>
cd hydra-plugin_test_host
script/server
</pre>