h2. Installation/Setup

h3. (1) Grab the code

<pre>
git clone git@github.com:projecthydra/hydra-head.git
</pre>

h3. (2) Grab jetty and the test host application

The git repository includes references to git submodules containing hydra-jetty and a sample Blacklight app that you can install the hydra-head plugin into.

<pre>
cd hydra-head
git submodule init
git submodule update
bundle install
</pre>


h3. (3) IMPORTANT: Put a copy of the plugin into the host app

*If you don't run this, you will not be able to run the test host app or its rake tasks*

The host application needs a copy of the plugin in its vendor/plugins directory.  We provide a rake task for this.  The rake task will copy all of the plugin code into hydra-plugin_test_host/vendor/plugins

<pre>
rake hyhead:copy_to_host_plugins_dir
</pre>


h3. (4) Migrate the host app's databases

<pre>
cd hydra-plugin_test_host
rake db:drop:all
rake db:migrate
rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=test  
cd ..
</pre>

h2. Running the full Continuous Integration build

_Stop any copies of jetty that you have running before running this._

This will spin up jetty, import your fixtures into it run the tests, and stop jetty.

<pre>
rake hyhead:ci RAILS_ENV=test 
</pre>

h2. Running the Tests Manually

h3. Start Jetty and load the fixtures

<pre>
rake hydra:jetty:load RAILS_ENV=test
rake hydra:default_fixtures:refresh environment=test
</pre>

h3. Run the RSpec Tests

<pre>
rake hyhead:spec
</pre>

OR

<pre>
rake hyhead:remove_from_host_plugins_dir
rake hyhead:copy_to_host_plugins_dir
rake hyhead:rspec
</pre>


h2. Running the App

The test host app is a regular Rails app with Blacklight installed.  Its configured with the assumption that the hydra-head plugin is installed into vendor/plugins/hydra-head.

Before starting the app, make sure that you have the latest copy of the plugin code copied into its plugins directory.

<pre>
rake hyhead:remove_from_host_plugin
rake hyhead:copy_to_host_plugins_dir
</pre>

After copying the plugin code, cd into the root of the test app and start it like you normally start any rails app.

<pre>
cd hydra-plugin_test_host
script/server
</pre>