DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT
I don't believe this works -- Naomi   2011-05-13

Run the Blacklight installation script

<pre>
rails ./my-hydra-head -m http://projectblacklight.org/templates/latest.rb 
</pre>

OR

<pre>
rails ./blacklight-app -m http://projectblacklight.org/templates/2-8-0.rb 
</pre>

install gems? yes
run migrations? yes.
install solr? no.

Update .gitignore  !! before you commit the new blacklight files

Add blacklight code into your git repository (rather than as a submodule)

<pre>
  mkdir vendor/plugins/blacklight-temp
  
  cp -R vendor/plugins/blacklight/* vendor/plugins/blacklight-temp/
  rm -rf vendor/plugins/blacklight
  
  git rm vendor/plugins/blacklight
  mv vendor/plugins/blacklight-temp vendor/plugins/blacklight
  git add vendor/plugins/blacklight
</pre>

h2. Apply hydra-head files

These steps will eventually be handled by a generator.  For now, clone a copy of the hydra-head repository and copy the files from there

!! Don't override routes.rb!  Save a copy of the one that blacklight set up before running these commands

<pre>
  cp config/routes.rb routes-copy.rb
</pre>

<pre>
cp ../hydra-head/Gemfile ./
cp -R ../hydra-head/config/* config/
</pre>

<pre>
  mv routes-copy.rb config/routes.rb 
</pre>

#	modified:   config/initializers/blacklight_config.rb
#	modified:   config/solr.yml
#	added:   Gemfile
#	added:   config/fedora.yml
#	added:   config/hydra_types.yml
#	added:   config/initializers/fedora_config.rb
#	added:   config/initializers/hydra_config.rb
#	added:   config/role_map_cucumber.yml
#	added:   config/role_map_development.yml
#	added:   config/role_map_production.yml
#	added:   config/role_map_test.yml
#	added:   config/solr_mappings.yml

h2. Install required plugins

h3. Engines plugin

Move Blacklight's copy of the engines plugin into the app's vendor/plugins directory.  This is mainly so you have access to the rake tasks that the engines plugin provides.

<pre>
  cp -R vendor/plugins/blacklight/vendor/plugins/engines vendor/plugins/
</pre>

h3. White List plugin

This is a legacy dependency.  We will be removing it soon, but for now you need to have it installed in order for hydra-head to run properly.

<pre>
  script/plugin install git://github.com/projecthydra/white_list.git
</pre>

h3. fluid-infusion plugin

This is another legacy dependency.  Now we mainly rely on it just for the implementation of swfuploader.

<pre>
  script/plugin install  git://github.com/mediashelf/fluid-infusion.git
</pre>


h2. Update config/environment.rb

in config/environment.rb

Switch line 8 to use '../vendor/plugins/engines/boot' instead of '../vendor/plugins/blacklight/vendor/plugins/engines/boot'

<pre>
  require File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), '../vendor/plugins/engines/boot')
  # require File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), '../vendor/plugins/blacklight/vendor/plugins/engines/boot')
</pre>

Set the load order for plugins, ensuring that blacklight is loaded before hydra-head

<pre>
  config.plugins = %W(engines blacklight fluid-infusion hydra-head white_list)
</pre>

h2. Patch Blacklight's CatalogController

Comment out these lines in Blacklight's CatalogControer.show method (lines 47-51)
You have to comment this out because it breaks the hydra-head overrides.

Note: The long-term fix to this will be to implement before_render callbacks in CatalogController.show and refactor hydra-head to use those callbacks instead of aliasing the show method itself.

<pre>
  # Add all dynamically added (such as by document extensions)
  # export formats.
  #@document.export_formats.each_key do | format_name |
  #  # It's important that the argument to send be a symbol;
  #  # if it's a string, it makes Rails unhappy for unclear reasons.
  #  format.send(format_name.to_sym) { render :text => @document.export_as(format_name) }
  #end
</pre>



h2. If you plan to use this as a test host

If you're setting this up as a test host application for testing the hydra_head plugin, you need to do the following.

in app/controllers/application_controller.rb and app/helpers/application_helper.rb, replace require_dependency with require_plugin_dependency

In app/controllers/application_controller.rb

<pre>
  require_plugin_dependency( 'vendor/plugins/blacklight/app/controllers/application_controller.rb')
</pre>

In app/helpers/application_helper.rb

<pre>
  require_plugin_dependency 'vendor/plugins/blacklight/app/helpers/application_helper.rb'
</pre>


h2. If you plan to run this as a full app (not as a test host)

_DON'T do these steps if you're setting up a test host app for testing a plugin._

A sample of a fully installed hydra head application is located in the "fully_installed": https://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-plugin_test_host/tree/fully_installed branch of the hydra-plugin_test_host git repository.

h2. Add Jetty

Put a copy of hydra-jetty into the jetty directory within your app. This provides copies of solr and fedora that you can use for testing and development purposes.

<pre>
  git submodule add git://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-jetty.git jetty
</pre>

h2. Add .rvmrc

Only do this if you're using RVM.  DON'T do this if you're running this app as a test host.

Sample .rvmrc: https://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-head/blob/master/.rvmrc


h2. Install the hydra-head plugin

There are many ways to get the hydra-head code into vendor/plugins.  One way is to use script/plugin install

<pre>
  script/plugin install git://github.com/projecthydra/hydra-head.git 
</pre>

h2. Copy the hydra-head database migrations into the root app

<pre>
  cp vendor/plugins/hydra-head/db/migrations db/migrations
</pre>

h2. Run the Database Migrations

You must do this _after_ installing the hydra-head plugin, whether you've installed it using the test host approach or installed it explicitly.

<pre>
  rake db:migrate
</pre>

h2. Run the app

<pre>
  script/server
</pre>
